# Financial Transaction Data Processing

This code is able to process financial data and generate a report summary. Below describes some of the functions of data processing.

## Validating Data
```
validateData(const Transaction *t, char *fileName)
```

The main idea of this is to ensure all transactions are consistent. The difference in the account balance before and after the transaction should be equal to the amount of the transaction.

## Fraud Detection: Reporting Limits & Suspicious Limits
```
depositLimit (const Transaction *t, char *fileName)
```

Federal law requires banks to report all transaction of $10,000 or more to the IRS for tax purposes. This will act as a tool to detect fraud and money laundering. This tool will produce a report of the number of deposits in excess or close to $10,000.

## Fraud Detection: Repeated Transactions
```
repeatedTransactions (Transaction *t, char *fileName)
```

Another red flag for money laundering activity is repeated transactions between the same accounts for the same amount. This code will identifies all transactions that have the same source/destination accounts in the same amount.

## Fraud Detection: Benford's Law
```
benford (const Transaction *t, char *fileName)
```

Benford's Law is an observation that naturally occuring figures follow a well-defined distribution. One way of detecting fraud is to analyze a set of numbers to see if they follow the same expected distribution. If so, then they might be legitimate. If the first digit of the set of numbers does not follow Benford's Law, then it may be an indication that they were generated by some artificial or random process.

## Fraud Detection: Finding Data Anomalies
```
dataAnomalies (Transaction *t, Transaction *u, char *fileName, char *fileName2)
```

Databases are frequently backed up at regular intervals called "snapshots." This code will identify potential issues by comparing two database snapshots and finding any data anomalies between them.

###### Assignment 5 CSCE155E Fall 2019 - Prof. Chris Bourke